Now that we know what Jaker is and why we should be excited about it let's see how easily we can put
it into our web pages.
And I'm actually going to show you two different ways to do it and we'll look at the advantages and
disadvantages of each.
So first off let's jump back over to our text editor and I got good old javascript or HDMI all set up
then.
I'm going to save that as a new file and I'm going to create a new folder.
So this is number four.
And I'll call it J.A.G. OK and we'll save it there.
But I will call it Jay Queretaro HMO
OK.
And as usual we'll start with an empty l document
and we'll call it take very OK.
So we don't need that anymore.
So let's get ourselves
split up and let's see first off the quickest way to get going with Jake Weary and that is to google
for something like in bed.
Jay query so this is what we're trying to do we're trying to embed Jay query into our page so that we
can use it.
And thanks to Google we actually get the answer without even having to go to another page because Jay
query is hosted on Google API is dot com and we can grab it right there.
So all we have to do is copy that script tag and put it usually in the head of our page.
So we saw the script at the end of the previous section.
This allows us to take the version 2.2 of Jay query and use it in our page.
Now this is a great way of doing things and it's actually what I'd normally recommend for production
web sites.
The you are l Google IPs dot com is extremely reliable.
It's probably faster than your own web hosting.
And because a lot of Web sites already use this link there's a good chance that it's already downloaded
and cached only use his computer.
So if that's the case they won't even have to download it again.
Which means that your web site will load even faster.
The slight downside however is that you are relying on another web service Hey you don't have any control
over Google API.
And it's extremely unlikely but they might go down or they might change their you or else or do something
that actually breaks this link.
So if you're the sort of person that wants complete control of your code you may not be keen to do something
like this.
How would you get a query in that case then.
Well that's method number two.
And this is where we go back to Jay queery dot com and we clicked that big orange download Jay queery
button.
So I'm just going to click on that and I'd recommend going for Jay queery 2.2.
And if in doubt go for the compressed version because that's going to load more quickly.
So then just say that in fact I'm going to save it directly into my Jay query folder and I'm going to
change his name to make it a little bit easier.
Type in.
I'm just going to call it Jay Querrey don't mean Doc J.S..
So now it's an external javascript file but it's stored on my computer so I don't have to worry about
Google servers ever going down.
It's only going to be linking to code on my server.
This is also handy when you're developing a site.
If you're for any reason working off line or if you've got a bad internet connection then working with
a local version of Jay Querrey will mean that you're not downloading information from the internet so
everything will happen faster.
As long as you're working completely off line.
So those are the two ways that you can use a query.
I'd generally go for the first one in a production site but I'm going to keep with this one for the
rest of the section for no particular reason other than it's already there.
It also means I'm not relying on my internet connection at any point.
All right.
So let's now go back and open this
page up I'm just going to put a quick hi there so I know that I've got the right page when I find it
and I'll open it by just going to find out or explorer in Windows and then into the desktop completely
and develop a course for Jay query and then Jay queery George TNL.
There we go.
I'll just say that it's and we should get the correct content.
Hi there.
So one question that might come to mind is how do we know whether or not Jay query is actually loaded
it doesn't do anything.
Well one way would be to start typing some query and see if it works but that's not a great solution
because you might want to have some kind of javascript code that at least runs if a query is not working.
So let me show you how we can test for a query in a reliable way.
Remember Jay query is just a framework.
On top of javascript everything works in a very similar way to javascript's and we put all our Jey query
code in exactly the same place that we would put how javascript code.
So if our J query is up and running there will be a variable called J query.
Now this is very promising but it's come up with this already because it means that my text editor has
picked up on the J query here and it recognizes J query as a variable.
So I'm feeling confident but I want to be sure and I want to run it in my web page over here.
So how do you test if a variable exists.
Well what you do is you look for a type of variable.
So each variable has a different type and if a variable doesn't exist that type is going to be undefined.
And if you just put a single equal then that would have been bad.
So what this does is looks at the type of the variable J query and tests whether or not it's undefined.
So if it is undefined then that means J Querrey hasn't installed correctly for whatever reason so will
alert Jay Querrey is not installed.
But if it's not undefined that means it exists.
So we can alert Jay Querrey is installed correctly.
So I'm hoping to get the second alert.
Let's refresh the page and find out.
Jay query is installed correctly.
Fantastic.
That's just make absolutely sure that this is doing what we hoped and get rid of this script temporarily
and then run the page again.
And you can see Jay query is not installed.
So this is a good thing to do at the beginning of your web page creation.
If you're using Jake J.A.G. just do a quick test to make sure that everything's up and running.
Otherwise you might write a bunch of code and it wouldn't work and you don't know why and then you realize
you're Jay queery link is wrong or something like that.
OK so now we're up and running with Jay queery.
We're going to continue in the next few videos to see how we do some of the things that we have already
learned to do in javascript NJ Querrey and generally will find that there are a lot easier and more
flexible when we're doing them in query than they are in javascript.
I've just noticed as well that we don't have a type.
They're always going to have a type.
I will put that in text slash javascript.
Really.
OK so let's move on and see how we detect a click and do something in response with Jay query.